# edgedetection-roadlane
semester 7 project OUC Computer vision
**History and Background**
in 2018 China had a total of 63194 annual road fatalities, some of these attributed to bad weather, or bad tailgating leading cars. These road traffic injuries bring considerable economic losses to victims, their families, and nations as a whole, Because of this we think that auto mobile cars developed with lane departure warnings or lane line detection systesm are a key fundamental to road safety.
In recent years, advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving cars have become more and more important in reducing traffic accidents. As a key technology for intelligent vehicles, lane line detection has attracted widespread attention from plenty of institutes and automobile technology companies. Lane lines have always been painted for humans to see and follow while driving. In a very similar way, an autonomous vehicle that uses human designed infrastructure, needs to see the lane markings to steer accordingly and follow the road trajectory as these cars use the same roads as manually driven cars. The concept of LLD is used to describe the path for self-driving cars and to avoid the risk of getting in another lane. Most previous research works could only detect lanes on non-curved roads, and lack of distinctive features on roads make lane detection algorithms seem ineffective and confused by other objects with similar appearance. Moreover, the inconsistent number of lanes on a road as well as diverse lane line patterns, e.g. solid, broken, single, double, merging, and splitting lines further hamper the performance. in our research, we will put into cinsideration the existance of curved roads, shadows, inconsistant continuous and discontinuous lanes with different colors.
